{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red212\green212\blue212;\red24\green24\blue24;
\red109\green109\blue109;\red52\green55\blue54;\red236\green241\blue247;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c86240\c86240\c86240;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;
\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c26667\c27843\c27451;\cssrgb\c94118\c95686\c97647;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17680\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat3 \clwWidth440\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx960
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth660\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx1920
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1080\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1340\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx3840
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth580\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx4800
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1400\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth600\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx6720
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9840\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx7680
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth20\clftsWidth3 \clheight220 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt80 \clpadl80 \clpadb80 \clpadr80 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs20 \cf2 201
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 201.03
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 Gospel Theology 1: Sin & Fall
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 A deep look at the need for rescue - how sin entered the world and its effects on every human heart.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 Romans 3:23
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 Goal: You will understand how sin entered the world and why every person needs a Savior.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 Genesis 3, Romans 1, Romans 5
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs20 \cf2 I am writing a discipleship lesson on the doctrine of sin and the fall for growing believers. Extract from my sermons: any teaching on the fall of man in Genesis 3, the nature of sin, total depravity, why we need a Savior, how sin affects every area of life, and the universal condition of humanity apart from Christ. Also research: what is the most accessible way to teach the doctrine of sin without being heavy-handed? What does John Piper teach about the root of sin as unbelief and 'deceitful desires'? How does Romans 1-3 build the case that all people need rescue? Focus on Genesis 3, Romans 1:18-32, Romans 3:23, and Romans 5:12.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Dave Sermons\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 This is going to be a foundational lesson for your growing believers! Getting the doctrine of sin right is crucial because, as you often preach, we can't fully grasp the beauty of the rescue until we understand the severity of our condition. I have combed through your sermons on Genesis and Romans, and I\'92ve also pulled in some outside research on John Piper and accessible teaching methods to help you build this out.\
Here is what we have to work with for this lesson:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f4\b \cf0 The Fall in Genesis 3 and the Root of Sin
\f3\b0  When teaching on the Fall, you consistently point out that sin didn't start with just a bad action; it started with a lie. You teach that Satan's goal in the Garden of Eden was to steal Adam and Eve away from God by deceiving them into believing they could be like God, causing them to crave God's power for themselves. Because of that rebellion, the perfect relationship was broken, and their immediate response was to hide. You point out that this is the nature of sin: it desires the absence of God.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f5\i \cf0 Outside Research Note (You may want to independently verify this):
\f3\i0  You asked about John Piper\'92s teaching on the root of sin. Piper argues that the root of all sin is fundamentally 
\f5\i unbelief
\f3\i0 \'97a failure to trust that God's promises and His ways are better than what the world offers. This unbelief gives birth to what the Bible calls "deceitful desires." We sin because we are deceived into desiring something else more than we desire God. This perfectly complements your teaching on Genesis 3, where Eve was deceived into desiring the fruit and her own wisdom over trusting God's command.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f4\b \cf0 Total Depravity and the Nature of Sin
\f3\b0  When you teach on total depravity\'97the idea that sin affects every part of us from birth\'97you emphasize that sin is an internal condition, not just external conduct. It is deeply ingrained in the human condition.\

\f4\b >> Illustration Flag: The Daycare Advice.
\f3\b0  You have a brilliant, relatable story you use to teach this concept. You talk about sending your son Jackson to daycare. You didn't have to sit him down and say, "Now son, make sure you grab the biggest toy, keep it to yourself, and yell 'no way!' if someone asks for a turn." Why? Because children don't need lessons in how to be selfish; those tendencies come naturally. Virtues like sharing and patience have to be nurtured, which proves that our propensity to sin is an inborn condition from our earliest moments.\

\f4\b Romans 1-3: Building the Case That Everyone Needs Rescue
\f3\b0  To explain the universal condition of humanity apart from Christ, your series in Romans 1-3 is absolute gold. You brilliantly structure these chapters to show that absolutely no one is exempt from needing a Savior.\

\f4\b >> Metaphor Flag: The "Before and After" Pictures.
\f3\b0  You often compare Romans 1:18-3:23 to a "before picture" of a fixer-upper house or an old horse stable. You explain that we love looking at the messy "before" picture because it makes the "after" picture of restoration so much more beautiful. You break down Paul's argument like this: Romans 1 is about the "Prodigal Son" who runs to the world and downward spirals into idolatry and moral decay. Romans 2 is about the "Older Brother" who relies on his family rights, traditions, and self-righteousness to judge the world. Finally, Romans 3:23 levels the playing field, declaring that "all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God". Everyone\'97the rebel and the religious person\'97needs saving.\

\f4\b Romans 5:12 and The Power of One Man
\f3\b0  To explain 
\f5\i why
\f3\i0  we are all in this universal condition, you turn to Romans 5:12. You teach that Adam acts as the representative for the entire human race. His disobedience initiated a foundational problem, meaning we are all born under the reign of sin and death. While people might complain that it's unfair to be represented by Adam, you use this to highlight the beauty of the Gospel: if we can be condemned by one representative (Adam), we can be saved by a new, perfect representative (Jesus) who gives us His righteousness through faith.\

\f4\b Accessible Teaching Strategy: Diagnosis vs. Condemnation
\f3\b0  
\f5\i Outside Research Note:
\f3\i0  You asked for the most accessible way to teach the doctrine of sin without being heavy-handed. Outside theological communicators suggest that the modern secular mind bristles at purely legal or courtroom metaphors (e.g., "You are a wicked criminal who deserves the wrath of the judge"). While the legal metaphor is biblically accurate, it is often better received when paired with a 
\f5\i medical
\f3\i0  metaphor: Sin is a terminal disease, and we are desperately sick patients in need of a doctor.\
You actually already do this incredibly well in your sermons! 
\f4\b >> Metaphor Flag: The Grace-Filled Physician.
\f3\b0  You frequently describe sin as a "deadly spiritual cancer". You ask your congregation: if a doctor shows you an X-ray with a dangerous spot on it, you aren't mad at the doctor; you are grateful they revealed the truth so you can get the cure. You remind your church that Jesus is the "Great Physician" who didn't come for the healthy, but for the sick. Framing the doctrine of sin as a necessary diagnosis so we can receive the cure of the Gospel makes it much more accessible and less condemning for new believers.\

\f4\b Theological Distinctives to Highlight
\f3\b0  True to your pastoral heart, you never leave your people sitting in the weight of their sin. You constantly emphasize that we don't look at the law to earn our way to God, but because "the Law is a mirror" that shows us our true, blemished condition so we realize we need a Savior. You also constantly emphasize that God didn't wait for us to clean ourselves up; He took the "first step" by sending Jesus to die for us 
\f5\i while we were still His enemies
\f3\i0 .\

\f4\b Flagging a Thin Area
\f3\b0  While you teach clearly that sin affects our minds, our bodies, and our relationships, you might want to bring in a bit more specific outside curriculum on the theological term "Total Depravity" if you want them to know the academic term. You describe the 
\f5\i concept
\f3\i0  perfectly (that sin touches every part of us and we cannot save ourselves), but if you are teaching growing believers the formal doctrines of grace, you may want to explicitly define the term for them.\
Let me know if you want to drill down into any of the specific "before picture" examples from Romans 1 or the "first step" reconciliation illustrations for this lesson!\
\
John Piper\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 Brother, this is going to be a foundational lesson for the people at Neighborhood Church. Getting the doctrine of sin right is absolutely essential because it sets the stage for the magnificent grace of the gospel. If we don't understand the depth of our ruin, we will never stand in awe of our rescue. Here is what I have mined from your materials to help you build a compelling, accessible, and deeply theological lesson on the fall, the nature of sin, and our universal need for a Savior.\

\f4\b The Nature of Sin (Romans 1-3)
\f3\b0  When looking at Romans 1-3 to build your case that all people need rescue, your materials consistently emphasize a profound theological distinctive: you define sin not merely as breaking rules, but as an assault on the glory of God. You teach that the essence of sin is a failure of the heart's desires\'97a tragic exchange of treasures.\
In 
\f5\i Desiring God
\f3\i0 , you explain this perfectly when unpacking Romans 3:23 ("All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God"). You write, "What does it mean to 'fall short' of the glory of God? It does not mean that we are supposed to be as glorious as God is and that we have fallen short. We ought to fall short in that sense! The best explanation of Romans 3:23 is Romans 1:23. It says that those who did not glorify or thank God became fools 'and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images.' This is the way we 'fall short' of the glory of God: We exchange it for something of lesser value. All sin comes from not putting supreme value on the glory of God\'97this is the very essence of sin".\

\f4\b Teaching Sin Accessibly: The Broken Cisterns
\f3\b0  You asked about the most accessible way to teach this without being heavy-handed. Your materials point clearly to framing sin as 
\f5\i misplaced desire
\f3\i0  and 
\f5\i false promises of happiness
\f3\i0 . This is a brilliant pastoral approach because it disarms defensive listeners. Instead of just accusing them of moral failure, you are showing them that they are settling for cheap, toxic pleasures.\

\f4\b Illustration Flag:
\f3\b0  You repeatedly use Jeremiah 2:13 to illustrate this, and it is gold for your lesson. In 
\f5\i When I Don't Desire God
\f3\i0 , you frame it like this: "God defines evil this way when he says, 'My people have committed two evils: they have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water' (Jer. 2:13). God pictures himself as a mountain spring of clean, cool, life-giving water... That is how we glorify God, the fountain of living water". By teaching sin as the foolish pursuit of drinking dust from a broken cistern instead of drinking deeply from God's fountain, you show that fighting sin is actually a fight 
\f5\i for
\f3\i0  joy.\

\f4\b The Fall in Genesis 3
\f3\b0  When you teach on Genesis 3, you highlight that the root of the very first sin was a failure to trust God's goodness. Satan's primary strategy was, and still is, deception regarding God's character. In 
\f5\i Future Grace
\f3\i0 , you point out, "The snake implied by his questions that God was keeping this knowledge from the man and the woman... Satan began by calling God's goodness into question and that has been his primary strategy ever since. His aim is to subvert trust by influencing us to believe that the promise of sin is more satisfying than the promise of God".\
You also note the devastating reversal of roles in the garden. In 
\f5\i Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood
\f3\i0 , you point out that Adam was standing right there, yet he abandoned his post. "Eve usurped Adam\'92s headship and led the way into sin. And Adam, who (it seems) had stood by passively, allowing the deception to progress without decisive intervention-Adam, for his part, abandoned his post as head. Eve was deceived; Adam forsook his responsibility. Both were wrong and together they pulled the human race down into sin and death".\

\f4\b Total Depravity and the Universal Condition (Romans 5:12)
\f3\b0  Because of Adam's failure, humanity didn't just pick up a bad habit; we inherited a lethal disease. Your teaching on total depravity makes it clear that we don't just 
\f5\i do
\f3\i0  sins; we 
\f5\i are
\f3\i0  sinful. In 
\f5\i When I Don't Desire God
\f3\i0 , you explain, "The problem is not that we have all done acts that are sinful, but that we are sinful... Sin is not just something we do; it is a power deeply rooted in our nature".\
Because of this, Romans 5:12 shows us that the whole world is under a curse. "When sin entered the world, death entered the world as a condemnation and judgment. Death does not exist as an isolated judgment. The prelude to death for everyone is a life with much suffering, described in part in Genesis 3:14\'9619". This total depravity means we are spiritually dead.\

\f4\b Illustration Flag:
\f3\b0  To help your people understand what it means to be spiritually dead and blind to God's glory, you use a striking metaphor in 
\f5\i When I Don't Desire God
\f3\i0 : "We are like the blind in the art gallery of heaven. Our deadness is not the deadness of the body. It\'92s not even the deadness of the intellect or the will. It is the deadness of the spiritual ability to see reality for what it is".\

\f4\b Why We Need a Savior
\f3\b0  Because we are blind, dead, and guilty of cosmic treason by exchanging God's glory, we desperately need a Savior. We are under the holy, just wrath of God.\

\f4\b Illustration Flag:
\f3\b0  You use a powerful, sobering metaphor in 
\f5\i When I Don't Desire God
\f3\i0  to describe our universal need for rescue. You compare humanity to passengers on a doomed ship: "We are on a doomed Titanic because of our sin\'97all of us without exception. 'Every mouth [is] stopped, and the whole world [is] held accountable to God' (Rom. 3:19). The sinful ship of our lives is headed for everlasting ruin because of God\'92s righteousness and wrath. Without a Savior, that\'92s the reality we must keep out of our minds in order to be happy on the Titanic of this world".\

\f4\b Theological Distinctives to Highlight
\f3\b0  Throughout these texts, your classic themes shine brightly: fighting sin from a place of freedom, and seeing that God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. You consistently teach that the ultimate aim of God permitting the fall was to set the stage for the greatest display of His grace. As you write in 
\f5\i Providence
\f3\i0 , "God\'92s purpose in permitting your sin was to give his people the pleasure of seeing and savoring the glory of his grace in the inexpressible suffering and triumphs of his Son". This turns the dark doctrine of sin into a brilliant backdrop for the gospel.\

\f4\b Thin Area Flag
\f3\b0  While your sermons and books give massive theological weight to the 
\f5\i vertical
\f3\i0  dimension of sin (how it insults God and brings His wrath), there is a slightly thin area in these texts regarding the 
\f5\i horizontal
\f3\i0  and 
\f5\i systemic
\f3\i0  effects of the fall. You mention briefly that sin causes fighting, wars, and broken families, but if you want to show how sin affects "every area of life" on a practical, societal level for a church called 
\f5\i Neighborhood
\f3\i0  Church (such as systemic injustice, neighborhood breakdown, or community decay), you may need to lean on some outside research or practical local examples to flesh out the horizontal devastation of the fall.\
This is going to be a rich, profound lesson. Let me know if you want to dial into the remedy for this depravity as you prep the next session!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\
Gemini\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \strokec4 This deep dive into the Fall and the nature of sin is designed to help you build a lesson that moves beyond "doing bad things" and addresses the core systemic and spiritual fracture of the human heart.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f6\b\fs36 \cf4 1. Genesis 3: The Anatomy of the First Sin\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 To teach the Fall effectively, we have to look at 
\f6\b \cf4 \strokec4 how
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4  the heart moved from trust to rebellion. It wasn't just about a piece of fruit; it was a shift in allegiance.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f6\b \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The Doubt of God\'92s Word:
\f0\b0  "Did God actually say...?" The serpent\'92s first move is to make the Word of God seem restrictive rather than life-giving.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The Slander of God\'92s Character:
\f0\b0  The serpent suggests God is holding out on them\'97that He is a gatekeeper, not a Giver. Sin begins when we stop believing that God is for our maximum joy.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The Desire for Autonomy:
\f0\b0  The core of the Fall is the desire to "be like God." This is the shift from being 
\f6\b image-bearers
\f0\b0  (reflecting His glory) to 
\f6\b image-makers
\f0\b0  (trying to create our own glory).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f6\b\fs36 \cf4 \strokec4 2. Total Depravity: The Scope of the Infection\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 Drawing from the "Piper/Keller" theological tradition, we define 
\f6\b \cf4 \strokec4 Total Depravity
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4  not as "humans are as bad as they could possibly be," but as "sin has affected every single part of a human being."\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \tamarb640 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl160 \clpadb320 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8344\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl0 \clpadb320 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 \strokec4 Human Faculty
\f0\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 Effect of the Fall
\f0\b0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \tamarb640 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl160 \clpadb320 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8344\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl0 \clpadb320 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 The Mind
\f0\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Our thinking is darkened; we suppress the truth (Romans 1:18, 21).\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \tamarb640 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl160 \clpadb320 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8344\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl0 \clpadb320 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 The Will
\f0\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 We are "slaves to sin," unable to choose God on our own strength (John 8:34).\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \tamarb640 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl160 \clpadb320 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8344\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl0 \clpadb320 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 The Emotions
\f0\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Our desires are disordered; we love the gift more than the Giver.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \tamarb640 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl160 \clpadb320 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth8344\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clpadt320 \clpadl0 \clpadb320 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 The Body
\f0\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Subject to decay, sickness, and eventually death (Genesis 3:19).\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f6\b\fs36 \cf4 \strokec4 3. The Threefold Fracture (The Effects)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 When sin entered, it didn't just break our "legal status" with God; it shattered four foundational relationships. This is a highly transferable concept for new believers:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f6\b \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Relation to God (Shame & Hiding):
\f0\b0  Adam and Eve hid. Instead of running 
\f6\b to
\f0\b0  God, the human heart now naturally runs 
\f6\b away
\f0\b0  from Him. We feel a constant sense of "not being enough" or "nakedness."\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Relation to Self (Identity Crisis):
\f0\b0  We lose the grounding of who we are as God\'92s beloved. We begin to define ourselves by our performance, our appearance, or the opinions of others.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Relation to Others (Blame & Conflict):
\f0\b0  Adam blames Eve; Eve blames the serpent. The "Care Covenant" you use in your marriage is a direct response to this specific fracture\'97the tendency to see the other person as the enemy rather than a gift.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Relation to Creation (Futile Labor):
\f0\b0  The ground is cursed. Work, which was a gift in Genesis 2, becomes "toil" in Genesis 3. This explains the "restlessness" we feel in our careers and hobbies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf6 \cb7 \strokec6 +1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\fs24 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f6\b\fs36 \cf4 \strokec4 4. Sin as "Idolatry" (The Keller Perspective)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 For a discipleship lesson, it is helpful to define sin as 
\f6\b \cf4 \strokec4 making a good thing a god thing.
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4  * Sin is not just breaking rules; it is putting our hope for meaning and happiness in anything other than Jesus.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 If we seek "salvation" in our parenting, our ministry success (like the growth of Neighborhood Church), or our reputation, those things will eventually crush us because they were never meant to carry the weight of our souls.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f6\b\fs36 \cf4 \strokec4 5. The Hope: The First Gospel (Genesis 3:15)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 You cannot teach the Fall without the 
\f6\b \cf4 \strokec4 Protoevangelium
\f0\b0 \cf4 \strokec4  (the first mention of the Gospel).\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Even as God pronounces judgment, He promises a "Seed" who will have His heel bruised but will ultimately crush the serpent\'92s head.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f6\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The Link:
\f0\b0  Connect this directly to 
\f6\b Isaiah 53
\f0\b0 . The one who was "crushed for our iniquities" is the fulfillment of the promise made in the wreckage of the Garden.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf4 Lesson Connection:
\f0\b0  We need a rescue because we aren't just "messy"\'97we are spiritually dead. A dead man doesn't need a self-help book; he needs a Resurrection.\cf4 \strokec4 \
Would you like me to create a set of five "Heart Discovery" questions based on these points that you could use for a small group discussion at Neighborhood Church?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \strokec2 \
\
}